[Autogenerated] you are not able to insert documents in Mongo, which is great.
However, documents have a tendency to evolve and change over time.
And that's where updates come in.
In Mongo and spring,
we have two of the types can update single documents or
we can update multiple documents.
This is also called Batch Update.
The sicker look at an example we are retrieving an airport by its I.
D.
And we assigned to the variable code OTP.
By the way, OTP is the code for Bucharest International Airport.
At this stage, we have these documents.
Then we are updating a couple of properties the flights
per day and the proximity weather.
Then we called the safe method and passing the modified object.
At this point, our document was updated.
We now have 3000 flights per day, and the proximity weather was set.
Drink.
The safe method is away toe update single documents in mongo, Debbie and Spring.
But save does more than that.
Save scares the entire collection and tries to find
a document with a matching I d.
If no document is found for that provided I d then save acts like insert.
A new document is created with the provided i D.
If a document is found,
then it is completely replaced with a previous one
and I mean completely replaced.
It doesn't matter if you change one field or all the fields in your document.
Therefore,
I would argue that the safe method should really be called
insert or update because the name is misleading.
It doesn't just do update.
It does, ah, lot more than that and it can get you into subtle problems.
At this point,
I think a comparison between the two methods in certain safe is quite welcomed.
Let's start with dessert when we do not provide an I D,
then on ideas generated for us and the document is inserted in the collection.
If we provide our own I D.
And that idea is not already present,
then is certain it is that I d to say the document in the collection.
If we provide a new already existing i d, that an error is going to be thrown.
The third also has batch operation support via the insert.
Many method See if, on the other hand, when we do not provide an i d,
it generates one any sense the document in the collection,
so it works like concert for this scenario,
when we provide an existing I D.
If it is not already present,
then it inserts the document in the collection using that I d.
Again up until now, safe works exact, like concert.
But when an existing ideas found,
then it completely authorized the document with the new values that we
provide and also save does not have batch operations support.
My advice to you, based on my experience,
is to use insert for new documents and save for updates.
Do not you save for inserts and updates just because it feels easier?
You know, because you can get into subtle problems and you'll have,
ah, hard time Frank Understand was going on.
Also,
you're making things more explicit if you're using
inserts for inserts and safe for updates.
We're making a clear distinction between these two operations,
and that's always a good thing in programming.
What about batch of its we mentioned earlier?
That save does not offer us a batch support.
Luckily for us,
there are other methods on mongo template that we
can use to perform batch updates.
But first I want to talk about the process.
We have to retrieve the documents that we want to update using the query object.
Then we have to define the feels that he wants to update and
provide the new values for those particular fields.
After that,
we can update those fields using the update Muti
method on the Mongol temperate class.
Let's an example.
I want to update all the airports in Romania and change the weather.
So I'm creating a query exactly what we did in the previous module.
I'm adding a criteria where country is Romania and
then I'm creating this update object.
We have a friend interface and we use the update method on the left.
We have the field that won't change, and on the right, we have the new value.
Then we're using Mongol template.
We're calling the obvious motive method,
and we're passing in the airport that want to update,
and we're passing in the update object in our case,
said weather and of course,
the type of the document airport class and it's super from
this batch update and change proximity weather field in all
of the targeted documents,
we also have a variation of this method called update First,
the recipe is the same.
However.
Update first, just modifies the first documents retrieved by the quarry.
Not all the documents.
So if your quarry returns,
one document an update first is definitely your choice.
I know that I'm repeating myself,
but this is really important when you're raising up dead movie or a bit first.
Only the fields defined the update object are affected, not the whole document. It's a pretty important distinction.